<!-- Section: Player Technical -->

## SECTION 4 PLAYER TECHNICAL

A player shall not:

### ART. 1
Participate after changing the player's number without reporting it to the scorer and an official.  
**PENALTY:** (Art. 1) Flagrant foul. Penalized if discovered while being violated.

### ART. 2
Purposely and/or deceitfully delay returning after legally being out of bounds.

### ART. 3
Grasp either basket at any time during the game except to prevent injury; dunk or stuff, or attempt to dunk or stuff a dead ball.

### ART. 4
Illegally contact the backboard/ring by:
- a. Placing a hand on the backboard or ring to gain an advantage.
- b. Intentionally slapping or striking the backboard or causing the ring to vibrate while a try or tap for field goal is in flight or is touching the backboard or is in the basket or in the cylinder above the basket.

### ART. 5
Delay the game by acts such as:
- a. Preventing the ball from being made live promptly or from being put in play.
- b. Failing, when in possession, to immediately pass the ball to the nearer official when a whistle sounds.
- c. The free thrower fails to be in the free-throw semicircle when the official is ready to administer the free throw unless the resumption-of-play procedure is in effect following a time-out or intermission.
- d. Repeated violations of the throw-in, as in [Rule 9-2-10](#rule-9-2-10).

### ART. 6
Commit an unsporting foul. This includes, but is not limited to, acts or conduct such as:
- a. Disrespectfully addressing or contacting an official or gesturing in such a manner as to indicate resentment.
- b. Using profane or inappropriate language or obscene gestures.
- c. Baiting or taunting an opponent.  
  **NOTE:** The NFHS disapproves of any form of taunting which is intended or designed to embarrass, ridicule or demean others under any circumstances including on the basis of race, religion, gender or national origin.
- d. Purposely obstructing an opponent's vision by waving or placing hand(s) near an opponent's eyes.  
  **NOTE:** Purposely diverting an opponent's attention by waving is different than holding or waving the hands near the opponent's eyes for the express purpose of obstructing the vision so that the opponent cannot see.
- e. Climbing on or lifting a teammate to secure greater height.
- f. Faking being fouled, knowingly attempting a free throw or accepting a foul to which the player was not entitled.
- g. Using alcohol, or any form of tobacco product (e-cigarette or similar items) beginning with arrival at the competition site until departure following the completion of the contest.
- h. Removing the jersey and/or pants/skirt within the visual confines of the playing area.

[Rule 10-4](#rule-10-4)