<!-- Section: Court Areas -->

## Rule 4-13 #section-court-areas

### SECTION 13 COURT AREAS

- **ART. 1** . . . A team's frontcourt consists of that part of the court between its end line and the nearer edge of the division line, including its basket and the inbounds part of the backboard.

- **ART. 2** . . . A team's backcourt consists of the rest of the court, including the entire division line and the opponent's basket and inbounds part of the opponent's backboard.

<!-- Section: Disqualified Player -->

## SECTION 14 DISQUALIFIED PLAYER #section-disqualified-player

- **ART. 1** . . . A disqualified player is one who is barred from further participation in the game because of having committed a fifth foul (personal and technical), two technical fouls or a flagrant foul.

- **ART. 2** . . . A player is officially disqualified and becomes bench personnel when the coach is notified by an official.

<!-- Section: Dribble -->

## SECTION 15 DRIBBLE #section-dribble

- **ART. 1** . . . A dribble is ball movement caused by a player in control who bats (intentionally strikes the ball with the hand(s)) or pushes the ball to the floor once or several times. It is not a part of a dribble when the ball touches a player's own backboard.

- **ART. 2** . . . During a dribble the ball may be batted into the air provided it is permitted to strike the floor before the ball is touched again with the hand(s).

- **ART. 3** . . . The dribble begins by pushing, throwing or batting the ball to the floor before the pivot foot is lifted.

- **ART. 4** . . . The dribble ends when:

  - a. The dribbler catches or causes the ball to come to rest in one or both hands.
  - b. The dribbler palms/carries the ball by allowing it to come to rest in one or both hands.
  - c. The dribbler simultaneously touches the ball with both hands.
  - d. The ball touches or is touched by an opponent and causes the dribbler to lose control.
  - e. The ball becomes dead.

- **ART. 5** . . . An interrupted dribble occurs when the ball is loose after deflecting off the dribbler or after it momentarily gets away from the dribbler. There is no player control during an interrupted dribble.

- **ART. 6** . . . During an interrupted dribble:
  - a. A closely guarded count shall not be started or shall be terminated.
  - b. A player-control foul cannot be committed, but a team-control foul still may be committed.
  - c. A time-out request shall not be granted.
  - d. Out-of-bounds violation does not apply on the player involved in the interrupted dribble.
