<!-- Section: Coaches Code of Ethics -->
## Coaches Code of Ethics

The function of a coach is to educate students through participation in interscholastic competition. An interscholastic program should be designed to enhance academic achievement and should never interfere with opportunities for academic success. Each student should be treated with the utmost respect and the student’s welfare should be considered in decisions by the coach at all times. Accordingly, the following guidelines for coaches have been adopted by the NFHS Board of Directors:

- Coaches shall be aware that they have a tremendous influence, for either good or ill, on the education of the student and, thus, shall never place the value of winning above the value of instilling the highest ideals of character.
- Coaches shall uphold the honor and dignity of the profession. In all personal contact with students, officials, athletic directors, school administrators and staff, the state high school athletic association, the media, parents, and the public, coaches shall strive to set an example of the highest ethical and moral conduct. Communication with all parties should be wholesome, appropriate and positive.
- Coaches shall respect and support contest officials. Coaches shall not indulge in conduct which would incite players or spectators against the officials. Public criticism of officials or players is unethical and inappropriate.
- Coaches shall take an active role in the prevention of drug, alcohol, tobacco and other substance abuse.
- Coaches shall avoid the use of alcohol and tobacco products when in contact with players.
- Coaches shall promote the entire interscholastic program of the school and direct the program in harmony with the total school program.
- Coaches shall master the contest rules and shall teach the rules to their team members.
- Coaches shall not seek an advantage by circumvention of the spirit or letter of the rules.
- Coaches shall utilize their positive influence to enhance sportsmanship by spectators, both directly and by working closely with cheerleaders, other school club sponsors, booster clubs and administrators.
- Coaches shall promote a culture that encourages diversity and inclusion.
- Coaches shall ensure they familiarize themselves and their teams with their schools’ emergency action plans and, where applicable, with concussion and heat illness prevention plans.
- Coaches should meet and exchange cordial greetings with the opposing coach to set the positive example and correct tone for the event before and after the contest.
- Coaches shall not exert pressure on faculty members to give students special consideration.
- Coaches shall not scout opponents by any means other than those adopted by the league and/or state high school association.