<!-- Section: 17 "X" Locates Scorer -->

## SECTION 17 "X" LOCATES SCORER

An "X" 12 inches long and 2 inches wide shall be placed on the floor out of bounds directly in front of the official scorer to help substitutes with the proper location. (See Diagram 1)

<!-- Section: 18 Music/Sound Effects/Artificial Noisemakers -->

## SECTION 18 MUSIC/SOUND EFFECTS/ARTIFICIAL NOISEMAKERS

The playing of music/sound effects shall only be permitted during pregame, time-outs, intermission and post-game. The use of artificial noisemakers shall be prohibited. The announcer shall be prohibited from making announcements during the game, such as "two minutes to go."

<!-- Section: 19 Electronic Devices -->

## SECTION 19 ELECTRONIC DEVICES

The use of electronic devices is permitted during the game.

<!-- Section: 20 Non-Playing Personnel -->

## SECTION 20 NON-PLAYING PERSONNEL

Non-playing personnel, e.g., spirit participants, media, shall remain outside of the playing area during a 30-second time-out. Non-playing personnel shall be located outside the free-throw lane lines extended toward the sidelines throughout the game.

<!-- Section: Officials and Their Duties -->

## SECTION 2 OFFICIALS AND THEIR DUTIES

### SECTION 1 GAME AND TABLE OFFICIALS

1. **ART. 1** The official's uniform shall be a black-and-white striped shirt, black pants, predominantly black shoes and black socks.
2. **ART. 2** The game officials shall be a referee and an umpire or a referee and two umpires who shall be assisted by an official timer and scorer.
3. **ART. 3** The scorer and timer shall be located at the scorer's and timer's table on the side of the court. It is recommended that the official scorer and timer be seated next to each other.  
   **NOTE:** If using a shot clock, the operator shall be located at the scorer's and timer's table.

### SECTION 2 OFFICIALS' JURISDICTION

1. **ART. 1** The officials shall make decisions for infractions of the rules committed within or outside the boundary lines. The use of any replay or television monitoring equipment by the officials in making any decision relating to the game is prohibited.  
   **EXCEPTION:** A state association may permit game or replay officials to use a replay monitor during state championship series contests to determine if a scored goal at the expiration of time in the fourth quarter or any overtime period (0:00 on the game clock) should be counted, and if so, determine if it is a two-point or a three-point goal.
