<!-- Section: Team Uniforms -->

## Team Uniforms

### Rule 3-4: Team Jersey and Uniform Bottoms

#### Article 1: Team Jersey

c. The number(s) on the front and back of the team jersey shall be the same color and style.  
d. Each team member shall be numbered on the front and back of the team jersey with plain Arabic numerals. The following numbers are legal: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 00, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55. A team member list shall not have both numbers 0 and 00.  
e. No more than three colors may be used on the number. The style of the number shall be clearly visible and conform to one of the following:

1.  A solid contrasting color with no more than two solid color ¼-inch borders around the entire number. If the team jersey color is used as a border, it shall be counted as one of the allowed colors.
2.  The team jersey color itself when bordered with not more than two ¼-inch solid border(s) contrasting with the team jersey color. This option shall be eliminated by 2024-25.
3.  A solid contrasting color with a "shadow" trim of a contrasting color on part of the number not to exceed ½ inch in width and may be used with one ¼-inch border.

#### Article 2: Identifying Names

ART. 4 . . . Identifying name(s) shall adhere to the following:  
a. If used, lettering with school name, school's nickname, school logo name, player's name and/or abbreviations of the official school name shall be placed horizontally on the jersey.  
b. The panel in the shoulder area of the jersey on the back may be used for placing identifying names as well.  
c. Lettering above a number may be arched, but the first and last letters shall be on the same horizontal plane, such plane shall not be below a plane extending through the top of the number(s).  
d. Lettering below a number shall have the first and last letters on the same horizontal plane and said plane shall not be above a plane extending through the bottom of the numbers(s).  
e. Any point on any letter shall not be closer than one inch to any point on any number(s).  
f. Any form of decorative accent (e.g., paw, halo, crown, star) in an identifying name or abbreviation is only permitted if the name or abbreviation is located above the number.  
g. If a tail is used in the lettering of an identifying name or abbreviation, the name or abbreviation shall be located below the number.

#### Article 3: Uniform Bottoms

ART. 5 . . . Like-colored uniform bottoms must adhere to the following:  
a. Multiple styles of uniform bottoms may be worn by teammates and may include shorts, skirts or pants.  
b. Uniform bottoms shall have only one visible manufacturer's logo/trademark/reference. See [Rule 3-6-2](#rule-3-6-2) for size requirements. Showing multiple manufacturer's logos on the waist band of the bottoms makes the item illegal.
