<!-- Section: Game Management -->

## Game Management

### Article 7
- Check and approve the score at the end of each half.

### Article 8
- Inform each team and the table officials of the overtime procedures when the score is tied at the end of regulation time.

## SECTION 6: OFFICIALS' AUTHORITY
No official has the authority to set aside or question decisions made by the other official(s) within the limits of their respective outlined duties.

## SECTION 7: OFFICIALS' GENERAL DUTIES
The officials shall conduct the game in accordance with the rules. This includes:

### Article 1
- Notifying the captains when play is about to begin at the start of the game.

### Article 2
- Putting the ball in play.

### Article 3
- Determining when the ball becomes dead and live.

### Article 4
- Prohibiting practice during a dead ball, except between halves.

### Article 5
- Administering penalties.

### Article 6
- Granting and charging time-out.

### Article 7
- Beckoning substitutes to enter the court.

### Article 8
- Signaling a three-point attempt and signaling a successful three-point goal.

### Article 9
- Silently and visibly counting seconds to administer the throw-in ([Rule 7-6](#rule-7-6)), free-throw ([Rule 8-4](#rule-8-4), [Rule 9-1-3a](#rule-9-1-3a)), backcourt ([Rule 9-8](#rule-9-8)), and closely-guarded ([Rule 9-10](#rule-9-10)) rules.

### Article 10
- Reporting a team warning for delay to the official scorer and then to the head coach of the offending team.

### Article 11
- Reporting a team warning for head coach/bench personnel misconduct to the official scorer and then to the head coach of the offending team.

### Article 12
- Notifying the head coach when a team is granted its final allowable time-out.

## SECTION 8: OFFICIALS' ADDITIONAL DUTIES
The officials shall:

### Article 1
- Penalize unsporting conduct by any player, coach, substitute, team attendant, or follower. 

> **NOTE:** The home management or game committee is responsible for spectator behavior, insofar as it can reasonably be expected to control the spectators. The officials may rule fouls on either team if its supporters act in such a way as to interfere with the proper conduct of the game. Discretion shall be used in ruling such fouls, however, lest a team be unjustly penalized. When team supporters become unruly or interfere with the orderly progress of the game, the officials shall stop the game until the host management resolves the situation and the game can proceed in an orderly manner. In the absence of a designated school representative, the home coach shall serve as the host management.

### Article 2
- Penalize and disqualify the offender if flagrant misconduct occurs.

### Article 3
- Remove a player from the game who commits a fifth foul (personal and technical).

[Rule 2-6](#rule-2-6)