<!-- Section: Rule 10-7 -->

## Rule 10-7: Participation in a Fight

### 10-7 (2)

> Participate in the fight – all participants are assessed flagrant fouls and disqualified. The head coach is assessed one indirect technical foul for each person leaving the bench and participating in the fight. If the number leaving the bench for each team is corresponding, no free throws are awarded, and the ball is put in play at the point of interruption. If the number leaving the bench for each team is unequal, two free throws are awarded to the offended team for each additional person leaving the bench, followed by a division line throw-in opposite the table.

**NOTE:** All fouls (except an indirect technical foul charged to the head coach) count toward the team's foul count in the half.

<!-- Section: State Association Adoptions -->

## State Association Adoptions

State associations may individually adopt specific coverage in the following:

1. Authorizing use and size of 28-foot (maximum) coaching box. ([Rule 1-13-2](#rule-1-13-2))
2. Authorizing use of supplementary equipment to aid in game administration. ([Rule 2-4-3 NOTE](#rule-2-4-3))
3. Authorizing the use of the shot clock ([Rule 2-14](#rule-2-14)). See Guidelines for Use of Shot Clock.
4. Authorizing rule exceptions to provide reasonable accommodations. ([Rule 3-5-1 NOTE](#rule-3-5-1))
5. Authorizing use of head coverings for medical or cosmetic reasons. ([Rule 3-5-3 EXCEPTION](#rule-3-5-3))
6. Authorizing use of a running clock when a specified point differential is reached. ([Rule 5-5 NOTE](#rule-5-5))
7. Determining the number of electronic media time-outs. ([Rule 5-11-1 NOTE](#rule-5-11-1))
8. Authorizing use of one commemorative/memorial patch on the jersey. ([Rule 3-4-2c](#rule-3-4-2c))
