<!-- Section: Shot Clock – State Association Adoption -->

## #section-shot-clock-state-association-adoption

In accordance with [Rule 2-14](#rule-2-14), each state association may adopt a procedure by which it implements a 35-second shot clock effective with the 2023-24 season. The following recommended guidelines are for those states choosing to adopt the shot clock.

### #subsection-shot-clock-displays

#### SHOT CLOCK DISPLAYS

1. A shot clock is one of two official visible timepieces – one at each end of the court.
2. Shot clocks should be recessed and mounted on the backboard supports behind each backboard.
3. An alternate-timing device or procedure shall be available when a visible shot clock malfunctions.
4. LED lights located around the shot clock may be used, but the lights shall only be activated for a shot clock violation.
5. Nothing shall be attached to the shot clock mounting mechanisms that affects the visibility of the shot clock.

### #subsection-game-and-table-officials

#### GAME AND TABLE OFFICIALS

A shot clock operator will be located at the scorer’s and timer’s table. It is recommended that the timer and shot clock operator be seated next to each other.

### #subsection-officials-general-duties

#### OFFICIALS' GENERAL DUTIES

1. Use the shot clock to administer the 10-second backcourt count (9-8). The 10-second count shall begin when the ball touches, or is legally touched by, a player on the court, in the backcourt on a throw-in or on player control on a rebound or jump ball. The official shall use a silent, visible 10-second count when there is no shot clock visible.
2. To indicate a shot clock violation, the official will give the stop clock signal followed by the tapping of the head and give a directional signal.
3. To indicate a shot clock reset, the official will use a rolling motion of a pointed index finger above the head.

### #subsection-shot-clock-operator-duties

#### THE SHOT CLOCK OPERATOR SHALL:

1. Use a 35-second shot clock in accordance with [Rule 2-14](#rule-2-14).
2. Use the shot clock the entire game, including extra periods, except when there is less time remaining on the game clock than on the shot clock. In this case, the shot clock shall be turned off.
3. Control a separate timing device with a horn that shall have a distinct sound different from the game clock horn.
4. Have an alternate-timing device or procedure available in the case of failure or lack of availability of the electronic clocks.
