<!-- Section: Dunking -->

## Section 16: Dunking

Dunking is the driving, forcing, pushing or attempting to force a ball through the basket with the hand(s).

<!-- Section: Extra Period -->

## Section 17: Extra Period

An extra period is the extension of playing time necessary to break a tie score. ([Rule 5-7-3](#rule-5-7-3))

<!-- Section: Fighting -->

## Section 18: Fighting

Fighting is a flagrant act and can occur when the ball is dead or live. Fighting includes, but is not limited to combative acts such as:

1. **ART. 1**: An attempt to strike, punch or kick by using a fist, hands, arms, legs or feet regardless of whether contact is made.
2. **ART. 2**: An attempt to instigate a fight by committing an unsporting act that causes a person to retaliate by fighting.

<!-- Section: Foul -->

## Section 19: Foul

A foul is an infraction of the rules which is charged and is penalized.

1. **ART. 1**: A personal foul is a player foul which involves illegal contact with an opponent while the ball is live, which hinders an opponent from performing normal defensive and offensive movements. A personal foul also includes contact by or on an airborne shooter when the ball is dead.

   > **NOTE**: Contact after the ball has become dead is incidental unless it is ruled intentional or flagrant or is committed by or on an airborne shooter.

2. **ART. 2**: A common foul is a personal foul which is neither flagrant nor intentional nor committed against a player trying or tapping for a field goal nor a part of a double, simultaneous or multiple foul.

3. **ART. 3**: An intentional foul is a personal or technical foul that may or may not be premeditated and is not based solely on the severity of the act. Intentional fouls include, but are not limited to:

   - a. Contact that neutralizes an opponent's obvious advantageous position.
   - b. Contact away from the ball with an opponent who is clearly not involved with a play.
   - c. Contact that is not a legitimate attempt to play the ball/player specifically designed to stop the clock or keep it from starting.
   - d. Excessive contact with an opponent while the ball is live or until an airborne shooter returns to the floor.
   - e. Contact with a thrower-in as in [Rule 9-2-10 PENALTY 4](#rule-9-2-10).

4. **ART. 4**: A flagrant foul may be a personal or technical foul of a violent or excessive nature, or a technical noncontact foul which displays unacceptable conduct. It may or may not be intentional. If personal, it involves, but is not limited to violent contact such as: striking, kicking and kneeing. If technical, it involves dead-ball contact or noncontact conduct at any time which is extreme or persistent, vulgar or abusive conduct. Fighting is a flagrant act.
