<!-- Section: Throw-In Procedures -->
## Throw-In Procedures

Officials must ask themselves three questions: 
1. Where did the violation/foul occur? 
2. Is the throw-in team in its frontcourt or backcourt? 
3. Where was the ball when the interruption occurred? 

1. If the throw-in is to be in the team's frontcourt, it shall be at either the nearest 28-foot mark along each sideline or the nearest spot 3 feet outside the lane line and the end line. (Diagram 5) 
2. If the throw-in is to be in the team's backcourt, the throw-in shall be at the designated spot nearest to where the foul, violation or other stoppage in play occurred. 

<!-- Section: End-of-Game Protocols -->
## End-of-Game Protocols

As a game nears the end of playing time, officials need to remind each other of the game-ending procedures to prevent potential issues. Oftentimes, late game time-outs will provide the best opportunities to:

### A. Confirm the following with the scorer:
1. Accuracy of the official scorebook; 
2. The number of time-outs remaining for each team (inform the head coach if the team has used its last time-out); 
3. The number of team fouls and impact on the bonus. 

### B. Remind the timer of the following:
1. Watch the officials for the clock-start and clock-stop signals; 
2. Be prepared to assist in aiding the officials regarding whether a last-second shot was released prior to the end of time, especially if the gym is loud and the officials cannot hear the final horn. 

### C. Officials should discuss the following:
1. Last-second shot responsibility (trail official 2-person, center/trail 3-person); 
2. Unless the ball is tapped, no try can be attempted on a throw-in or free throw with three-tenths (.3) of a second or less remaining; 
3. Intentional/flagrant fouls are two shots and a designated spot throw-in, as discussed during the pre-game conference; 
4. If a foul occurs as the game-ending horn sounds and the score can be tied or the game won by the ensuing free throws, the official must administer the free throws. If the free throws will not change the outcome, the free throws will not be attempted. 

### D. If the score is tied at the end of regulation time, inform each team and the table officials of the overtime procedures (length of overtime period, additional 60-second time-out, etc.). 

### E. Following the game-ending horn, the referee should confirm with the scorer that everything is correct, then leave the floor with their partner(s). In situations when the score is separated by three points or less, it may be necessary to verbally confirm with the scorer. In games where the margin of victory is larger, a visual signal such as a thumbs-up will suffice. Be confident that everything is correct, as the officials' jurisdiction ends when they leave the visual confines of the playing court.