<!-- Section: Rule 2-9 -->
## Rule 2-9

### 2023-24 NFHS Basketball Rules Page 20

#### ART. 4
Notify the head coach and request the timer to begin the replacement interval, and then notify the player on a disqualification. ([2-12-5](#rule-2-12))

#### ART. 5
Immediately remove a player from the game who exhibits signs, symptoms or behaviors consistent with a concussion, as in [Rule 3-3-8](#rule-3-3-8). (See NFHS Suggested Guidelines for Management of Concussion in Sports in Appendix C on page 85.)

<!-- Section: Signals -->
## SECTION 9 SIGNALS

#### ART. 1
When a foul occurs, an official shall signal the timer to stop the clock. The official shall verbally inform the offender, then with finger(s) of two hands, indicate to the scorer the number of the offender and the number of free throws.

#### ART. 2
When a team is entitled to a throw-in, an official shall signal the timer to stop the clock and clearly signal:
- a. The act which caused the ball to become dead.
- b. The direction of play and announce the color of the team entitled to the throw-in.
- c. The throw-in spot unless it follows a successful goal or an awarded goal.

<!-- Section: Correctable Errors -->
## SECTION 10 CORRECTABLE ERRORS

#### ART. 1
Officials may correct an error if a rule is inadvertently set aside and results in:
- a. Failure to award a merited free throw.
- b. Awarding an unmerited free throw.
- c. Permitting a wrong player to attempt a free throw.
- d. Attempting a free throw at the wrong basket.
- e. Erroneously counting or canceling a score.

#### ART. 2
In order to correct any of the officials' errors listed in Article 1, such error shall be recognized by an official no later than during the first dead ball after the clock has properly started.

#### ART. 3
If in Article 1e the error is made while the clock is running and the ball dead, it shall be recognized by an official before the second live ball.

#### ART. 4
If the error is a free throw by the wrong player or at the wrong basket, or the awarding of an unmerited free throw, the free throw and the activity during it, other than unsporting, flagrant, intentional or technical fouls, shall be canceled.

#### ART. 5
Points scored, consumed time and additional activity, which may occur prior to the recognition of an error, shall not be nullified. Errors because of free-throw attempts by the wrong player or at the wrong basket shall be corrected by applying [Rules 8-1](#rule-8-1) and [8-2](#rule-8-2).

#### ART. 6
If an error is corrected, play shall be resumed from the point of interruption to rectify the error, unless it involves awarding a merited free throw(s) and there has been no change of team possession since the error was made, in which case play shall resume as after any free-throw attempt(s).