<!-- Section: Rule 5-4 -->
## Rule 5-4

1. Administer cards for misconduct by players, coaches or team members, and inform the individual(s) of such actions;  
2. Administer cards for unnecessary delay warning and/or penalty by a coach, player, substitute, replacement or team and inform the individual(s) of such actions;  
3. Notify (or request the second referee to notify) the appropriate coach of reason for any disqualification;  
4. Whistle and signal "end-of-set," whistle and direct players to their respective team benches ([5-4-4b, c](#rule-5-4-4b-c));  
5. Visually confirm the score of each set with the second referee, then whistle and direct teams to the appropriate team benches.  

### ART. 4 . . . Court Protocol

a. At the end of the timed warmup period and prematch ceremonies, the officials shall take their positions on the court. The first referee whistles and directs the starting players to their respective end lines. When all officials are ready, the first referee whistles and signals the players onto the playing court. The second referee then checks the lineups for each team.  

b. Following nondeciding sets, after the first referee has confirmed the score of the set, the first referee whistles and signals the teams to change courts. The team members proceed immediately to their new team benches. The players proceed counter clockwise along the sideline outside the standards, then directly to their new team benches. The timer begins timing the three-minute interval between sets with the first referee's second whistle directing teams to their team benches.  

c. Prior to a deciding set:  
   1. The first referee whistles, signals end-of-set and directs the teams to their benches.  
   2. The second referee double whistles and raises a coin in the air to signal the captains to go near the officials' table for the deciding set coin toss. The home team calls the toss.  
   3. Upon completion of the deciding set coin toss, the second referee communicates the results of the toss to the first referee by extending an outstretched arm on the side of the team to serve first and gives the appropriate signal indicating if teams will remain on their own sides or change courts.  
   4. The first referee whistles and gives the appropriate signal indicating whether the teams will remain on their current sides or will change courts. The timer will begin the three-minute clock after this final signal.  

d. At the end of the match, the first referee shall whistle, give the end-of-set signal, then whistle and release the players. The second referee then verifies the score by initialing the scoresheet. The match becomes official when the scoresheet is initialed, and no change of score shall be allowed thereafter.