<!-- Section: 2024-25 Volleyball Rules Changes -->
## 2024-25 Volleyball Rules Changes

(For comments on the 2024-25 rules changes, see [page 55](#section-page-55))

### Rule Changes
- **4-2-3 NOTE (NEW)**, **7-1-1 NOTE** — Adds language regarding the proper procedure for a legal uniform number change and expands to include a damaged uniform as a legal reason for changing a uniform number.
- **5-4-3c(1)** — Allows all players on the roster, not just starting players, to stand on their respective end lines prior to the first set, encouraging the inclusion of all players in the prematch announcements.
- **5-9-2b NOTE (NEW)**, State Association Adoption Chart — Requires line judges to switch sides of the court between sets to promote fairness when, by state association adoption, teams remain on the same benches throughout the match.
- **11-4-1b** — Permits a team to immediately substitute for the libero replacement, who may be playing out of position, during an injury time-out if the libero is injured or ill and cannot continue.

### Major Editorial Changes
- **Suggested Prematch Protocol (NEW)** — Provides guidance for establishing standardized prematch protocols as well as timed warm-ups.

### Editorial Changes
- **4-1-7a,b**
- **5-4-3c(3 thru 24)**
- **9-5-1a(2)**
- **9-5-1a(4)**
- **9-5-1b(1)**
- **9-5-1b(4)**
- **9-5-6b**
- **12 NOTES**

1. Each state high school association adopting these rules is the sole and exclusive source of binding rules interpretations for contests involving its member schools. Any person having questions about the interpretation of NFHS rules should contact the rules interpreter designated by the respective state high school association. The NFHS is the sole and exclusive source of model interpretations of NFHS rules. State rules interpreters may contact the NFHS for model rules interpretations. No other model rules interpretations should be considered.