<!-- Section: Rule 3-2 -->
## Rule 3-2
### 2024-25 NFHS Volleyball Rules Page 16

> **ART. 3** . . . The net supports include any attachments to the net used for anchoring the net to walls or upright standards, as well as the standards themselves and any attachments used for anchoring the standards to the floor or walls or ceiling. The standards, first referee's platform and floor/wall cables shall be padded as follows:
> 
> a. Standards shall be padded to a minimum height of 5½ feet with at least 1-inch-thick, resilient, shock-absorbing material (such as polyethylene foam) to encase the uprights and all tensioning devices;  
> b. Front and sides of first referee's platform shall be padded in the same manner as the standards;  
> c. Any guy cables or rigid braces shall be padded to a minimum height of 5½ feet with at least ½-inch-thick resilient, shock-absorbing material.  
> 
> **PENALTY:** When the host school does not pad the standards, floor/wall cables and first referee's platform according to [Rule 3-1-3](#rule-3-1-3), the match shall not be played, and the state association shall be notified to determine further action or penalty, as deemed necessary.

> **ART. 4** . . . Net placement shall be such that the net crosses the court midway between and parallel to the end lines. The height of the net shall be 7 feet, 4 /8 inches (2.24 meters) for girls and 7 feet, 11 /8 inches (2.43 meters) for boys measured at the center of the net. The net measured at the ends shall not exceed these heights by more than ¾ inch (1.92 cm).

> **ART. 5** . . . Net antennas shall be attached to the net in line with the outside edge of the sideline and extend upward at least 2½ feet but no more than 3½ feet above the net. The antennas shall be fastened securely to the top and bottom of the net. They shall be of an unbreakable material no more than 3/8 inch in diameter with alternating 4-inch to 6-inch white and orange or red bands.

> **ART. 6** . . . A safe, stable platform, which elevates the first referee's head to between 2 and 3 feet above the top of the net, is required. It is recommended the top of the platform be at least 18 inches long by 12 inches wide, and that steps up to the platform be provided.

<!-- Section: The Ball -->
## SECTION 2 THE BALL

> **ART. 1** . . . The volleyball shall be spherical with a laceless molded cover of 12 or more basic, rectangular-shaped panels of equal size and genuine or simulated smooth leather (not suede). All panels of the ball shall be solid white or a maximum combination of three colors (with each panel being a solid color) and of which at least one-third of the panels shall be solid white. It shall measure at least 25 inches but no more than 27 inches in circumference, with a weight of 9-10 ounces when inflated with 4.3 - 4.6 pounds per square inch of air pressure.

> **ART. 2** . . . The home team shall provide competition volleyballs.