<!-- Section: 2024-25 Rules Changes -->

## 2024-25 Rules Changes

### Notes on Rule Changes

- **4-2-3 NOTE (NEW), 7-1-1 NOTE** — A new NOTE has been added to [Rule 4](#rule-4) **Uniforms** addressing when it is legal to change a player’s uniform number aligning the language with [Rule 7](#rule-7) **Roster and Lineup**. This change also expands to include a damaged uniform as a legal reason for changing a uniform number. It is now legal for a player to change their jersey and uniform number without penalty if the uniform is damaged or has blood on it.

- **5-4-3c(1)** — It is now permissible for a team to include all players on the roster, not just starting players, in the prematch announcements by allowing them to stand on their respective end lines prior to the first set. State associations and/or teams may continue to limit players on the end line to starting players and the libero. This change allows for the inclusion of all players but does not mandate inclusion.

- **5-9-2b NOTE (NEW), State Association Adoption Chart** — Line judges are now required to switch sides of the court between sets to promote fair officiating when, by state association adoption, teams remain on the same benches throughout the match. When teams switch sides of the court between sets and the line judges remain in their position throughout the match, teams have the equitable opportunity to alternate between line judges overseeing the lines. This change provides the same equitable opportunity regardless of state adoption.

- **11-4-1b** — Teams may substitute during an injury time-out (even though a replay is called) for the libero replacement if the libero is injured or ill. This change allows for the immediate substitution of the libero replacement who may be playing out of position due to the injury to the libero. While a replay limits a team from substituting, when the replay is called due to an injury of the libero, a substitute is allowed for the libero replacement.

---

**Page 55**  
**2024-25 NFHS Volleyball Rules**  
**COMMENTS ON THE 2024-25 RULES CHANGES**