<!-- Section: Rule 10-3 -->

## Rule 10-3

An illegal substitution does not count as an entry provided the illegal substitute is removed from the court.

### ART. 1

A re-entering player shall not return to the set during the same dead ball in which the player was substituted. The re-entering player shall assume the original position in the serving order in relation to other teammates.

### ART. 2

An injured/ill player who is legally replaced may re-enter the set.

### ART. 3

Any athlete who exhibits signs, symptoms, or behaviors consistent with a concussion (such as loss of consciousness, headache, dizziness, confusion, or balance problems) shall be immediately removed from the contest and shall not return to play until cleared by an appropriate health-care professional. (NFHS Suggested Guidelines for Management of Concussion, Appendix B).

### ART. 4

When teams have exhausted their 18 team substitutions or when no legal substitutes are available, an exceptional substitution is permitted only for an injured/ill player in the following priority:

1. By a teammate who has never played in the set or a player who has played in that position earlier in the set;
2. By any legal non-libero teammate on the bench who is not currently being replaced by the libero, regardless of previous position played;
3. By a libero if no other possible substitute exists. When no longer playing as a libero, that player shall wear the same uniform as the teammates and the team continues play without a libero.

> **NOTE:** An exceptional substitution is counted as a team substitution if the team has not exhausted its 18 team substitutions. An injured/ill player replaced by an exceptional substitution may not re-enter a set in which the exceptional substitution takes place. A team may not play with fewer than six players if there is a legal substitute (including an exceptional substitution) available.

### ART. 5

A substitution is illegal when the substitute:
a. Is in the set without following the required substitution procedure;
b. Re-enters or attempts to re-enter the set:

1.  During the same dead ball;
2.  In which the substitute was previously replaced by exceptional substitution procedure;
3.  As a 19th substitution;
4.  Without assuming the original position in the serving order as recorded on the scoresheet (except for an exceptional substitution).

### PENALTIES:

1. Unnecessary delay (administrative yellow card for the first offense or administrative red card for subsequent offense in that set) is charged to the offending team when an illegal substitute attempts to enter the set.
2. Illegal alignment is charged to the offending team when an illegal substitute is identified in the set after the whistle/signal for serve and results in a loss of rally/point.
