<!-- Section: Correctable Errors -->

## #section-correctable-errors

### DIAGRAM 4: CORRECTABLE ERRORS

### Rule 2-11: Scorer's Duties

The scorer shall:

#### ART. 1

- Keep a record of the names and numbers of players who are to start the game and of all substitutes who enter the game.  
  **NOTE:** It is recommended the team members' numbers be entered into the scorebook in numerical order.

#### ART. 2

- Notify the nearer official when there is an infraction of the rules pertaining to submission of the roster, substitutions, or numbers of players.

#### ART. 3

- Signal the officials by using the game horn or a sounding device unlike that used by the referee and umpire(s). This may be used immediately if, or as soon as, the ball is dead or is in control of the offending team.

#### ART. 4

- Record the field goals made, the free throws made and missed, and keep a running summary of the points scored.

#### ART. 5

- Record warnings for head coach/bench personnel misconduct as well as the personal and technical fouls reported on each player and notify an official immediately when:
  - The fifth foul (personal and technical) is charged to any player,
  - The second technical foul is charged to any team member, bench personnel, or directly to the head coach, or
  - The third technical foul is charged to the head coach.  
    **NOTE:** The procedure if a player who has committed a fifth foul continues to play because the scorer has failed to notify the official is as follows: As soon as the scorer discovers the irregularity, the game horn should be sounded after, or as soon as, the ball is in control of the offending team or is dead. The disqualified player shall be removed immediately. Any points which may have been scored while such player was illegally in the game are counted. If other aspects of the error are correctable, the procedure to be followed is included among the duties of the officials.
