<!-- Section: Rule 3-1 -->

## Rule 3-1

> **NOTE:** The official shall signal the timer to begin the 15-second interval for replacing an injured player after the injured player has been removed from the court and the coach has been notified that a replacement is required, except as in [Rule 3-3-6](#rule-3-3-6).

### ART. 6

- Stop the clock at the expiration of time for each quarter or extra period, and when an official signals time-out, as in [Rule 5-8](#rule-5-8).
- For an intermission or a charged time-out, start the stopwatch and signal the referee as outlined in Article 4.

### ART. 7

- Indicate by signal the expiration of playing time in each quarter or extra period. If a red/LED light is used, the light is the official expiration of playing time.

<!-- Section: Timer's Equipment -->

## SECTION 13 TIMER'S EQUIPMENT

- If the red/LED light fails to illuminate and the timer's signal fails to sound, or is not recognized by the officials, the timer shall go onto the court or use other means to immediately notify the nearest official. If in the meantime, a goal has been made or a foul has occurred, the referee shall consult the timer:

### ART. 1

- If table officials agree that time expired before the ball was in flight, the goal shall not count.

### ART. 2

- If table officials agree that the quarter or extra period ended, as in [Rule 5-6-2](#rule-5-6-2), before the foul occurred, the foul shall be disregarded, unless it was intentional or flagrant.

### ART. 3

- If table officials disagree, the goal shall count and/or the foul shall be penalized, unless the referee has knowledge which alters such ruling.

<!-- Section: Shot Clock -->

## SECTION 14 SHOT CLOCK

- By state association adoption, member state associations may establish a shot clock in which the team in control shall attempt a try for field goal within 35 seconds after gaining team control.

### ART. 1

- This shall be regulated by a visible shot clock.

### ART. 2

- The tap or try for field goal shall leave the shooter's hand before the expiration of time and subsequently strike the basket ring or enter the basket before or after the shot clock period has expired. (See the Guidelines for Establishing a Shot Clock on page 74.)

<!-- Section: Players, Substitutes and Equipment -->

## Rule 3 Players, Substitutes and Equipment

### SECTION 1 TEAM, CAPTAIN

### ART. 1

- Each team consists of five players, one of whom is the captain.

> **NOTE:** A team shall begin the game with five players, but if it has no substitutes to replace disqualified or injured players, it shall continue with fewer than five. When there is only one player participating for a team, the team shall forfeit the game, unless the referee believes that team has an opportunity to win the game.
