<!-- Section: Bench Decorum -->

## Bench Decorum

The rules committee is concerned about bench decorum rule violations by coaches and bench personnel. Only through enforcing existing rules will coaches and bench personnel exhibit appropriate and acceptable behaviors.

Coaches are expected to remain in the coaching box. The extension of the coaching box six years ago was intended to allow coaches to communicate with their players near the end line without violating the Coaching Box rule or creating a need to come onto the playing court. Coaches who go beyond the 28-foot line, or more importantly, onto the playing court, gain a distinct advantage, which is not within the spirit and intent of the rules.

Coaches are reminded that while the bench area expands during a time-out, the bench area does not extend beyond the 28-foot line. Coaches and other bench personnel may not move to the expanded bench area until the time-out begins to ensure bench personnel do not create inadvertent contact with opposing players still out on the playing court.

Coaches who leave the expanded bench area to engage officials inappropriately are subject to a warning or a bench technical foul. Misconduct by players, coaches, and bench personnel is not permitted. There is continued support for officials to use all the tools at their disposal. These tools include promptly issuing an administrative warning for misconduct by coaches and bench personnel or assessing a technical foul if warranted.

Players' taunting, baiting, finger-pointing, trash-talking, and using inappropriate gestures have increased during the past several seasons. Specifically, trendy hand gestures and body language meant to demean and single out opponents is not a reflection of good sporting behavior and has no place in the interscholastic setting.

Players and coaches are permitted to celebrate an individual or team accomplishment, but they cannot direct that celebration toward their opponent. Also, players and coaches are not allowed to disrespectfully or inappropriately address and/or gesture at an official after a ruling is made on the court. Player and coach behavior, which in the official's judgment is determined to be a taunt of an opponent or a disrespectful act toward an official, shall be penalized by assessing a technical foul.

Assistant coaches are not authorized to approach the scorer's table at any time. The head coach is permitted to go to the scorer's table to request a 60-second time-out to confer with personnel regarding a correctable error or to prevent or rectify a timing or scoring mistake/error or an alternating possession mistake.

<!-- Section: Throw-Ins – Proper Locations -->

## Throw-Ins – Proper Locations

Proper inbound spots contribute to the overall flow and fairness of the game. When the ball is inbounded from the correct location, it ensures that the offense and defense have an equal chance to contest the possession. It prevents teams from gaining an unfair advantage by manipulating the inbound spot, which could disrupt the balance of the game. Coaches design specific plays and offensive/defensive strategies based on where the ball will be put in play. It is, therefore, essential for game officials to be diligent in administering the ball at the proper throw-in location.

With the adoption of Rules 7-5-2 through 7-5-4, coaches, players, and officials are reminded of the following rules governing throw-in locations:

A. Anytime a team causes the ball to go out of bounds in either the frontcourt or the backcourt, the throw-in occurs from the spot where the ball went out of bounds.

B. When a violation by either team, a foul before the bonus by either team, or a dead ball (i.e., an inadvertent whistle or a held ball) occurs that will result in a throw-in, officials must ensure proper administration of the throw-in.
