<!-- Section: Scoring and Timing Regulations -->

## Rule 5 Scoring and Timing Regulations

### #rule-5-1

#### ART. 2

> For the first violation of [Rule 10-6-1](#rule-10-6-1), the official shall warn the head coach unless the offense is judged to be major, in which case a technical foul shall be assessed.

**NOTE:** A warning is not required prior to calling a technical foul.

### #section-1-goal

#### SECTION 1 GOAL

##### #rule-5-1-1

###### ART. 1

> A goal is made when a live ball enters the basket from above and remains in or passes through. No goal is scored if an untouched throw-in goes through the basket.

##### #rule-5-1-2

###### ART. 2

> Whether the clock is running or stopped has no influence on the counting of a goal. If a player-control foul occurs before or after a goal, the goal is canceled.

### #section-2-scoring

#### SECTION 2 SCORING

##### #rule-5-2-1

###### ART. 1

> A successful try, tap or thrown ball from the field by a player who is located behind the team's own 19-foot, 9-inch arc counts three points. A ball that touches the floor, a teammate inside the arc, an official, or any other goal from the field counts two points for the team into whose basket the ball is thrown. ([4-5-4](#rule-4-5-4))

##### #rule-5-2-2

###### ART. 2

> A goal from a free throw counts one point for the free-thrower's team and is credited to the free thrower. ([4-20-1](#rule-4-20-1))

##### #rule-5-2-3

###### ART. 3

> If a player scores a field goal in the opponent's basket, it is not credited to a player, but is indicated in a footnote. ([4-5-4](#rule-4-5-4))

##### #rule-5-2-4

###### ART. 4

> The only infractions for which points are awarded are goaltending by the defense or basket interference at the opponent's basket.

##### #rule-5-2-5

###### ART. 5

> When play is resumed with a throw-in or free throw and three-tenths (.3) of a second or less remains on the clock, a player may not gain control of the ball and try for a field goal. In this situation only a tap could score.

**NOTE:** This rule does not apply if the clock does not display tenths of a second.

### #section-3-winning-team

#### SECTION 3 WINNING TEAM

> The winning team is the one which has accumulated the greater number of points when the game ends, as in [Rule 2-2-4](#rule-2-2-4).

### #section-4-forfeiture-protest-interrupted-game

#### SECTION 4 FORFEITURE, PROTEST, INTERRUPTED GAME

##### #rule-5-4-1

###### ART. 1

> Unless state association rules determine otherwise, a game shall be declared a forfeit when:

- a. A team refuses to play after being instructed to do so by an official.
- b. A coach is removed from the premises for unsporting conduct and no authorized school personnel is present to assume responsibility for the team.
