<!-- Section: Rule 9-8 -->

## Rule 9-8

### ART. 3

Allowance shall be made for a player who, having been in the restricted area for less than three seconds, dribbles in or moves immediately to try for a field goal.

**PENALTY:** (Section 7) The ball is dead when the violation occurs and is awarded to the opponents for a throw-in from the designated out-of-bounds spot nearest the violation.

<!-- Section: 10 Seconds -->

## SECTION 8 TEN SECONDS

A player shall not be, nor may the player's team be, in continuous control of the ball which is in the team's backcourt for 10 seconds.

**PENALTY:** The ball is dead when the violation occurs. The opponent is awarded a possession throw-in in its frontcourt at one of the four designated spots nearest the violation. (Diagram 5)

<!-- Section: Backcourt -->

## SECTION 9 BACKCOURT

### ART. 1

A player shall not be the first to touch the ball after it has been in team control in the frontcourt, if the player or a teammate last touched or was touched by the ball in the frontcourt before it went to the backcourt.

**EXCEPTION:** A ball in team control of Team A in the frontcourt that is deflected by a defensive player, which causes the ball to go into the backcourt, may be recovered by either team unless the offense was the last to touch the ball before it went into the backcourt. If the offense was last to touch the ball in its frontcourt, only the defense can legally recover the basketball.

### ART. 2

While in player and team control in its backcourt, a player shall not cause the ball to go from backcourt to frontcourt and return to backcourt, without the ball touching a player in the frontcourt, such that the player or a teammate is the first to touch it in the backcourt.

### ART. 3

During a jump ball, throw-in or while on defense, a player may legally jump from the player's frontcourt, secure control of the ball with both feet off the floor and return to the floor with one or both feet in the backcourt. The player may make a normal landing and it makes no difference whether the first foot down is in the frontcourt or backcourt.

**PENALTY:** (Section 9) The ball is dead when the violation occurs. The opponent is awarded a possession throw-in in its frontcourt at one of the four designated spots nearest the violation. (Diagram 5)

<!-- Section: Closely Guarded -->

## SECTION 10 CLOSELY GUARDED

### ART. 1

A player shall not, while closely guarded:

- a. In the team's frontcourt, hold the ball for five seconds or dribble the ball for five seconds.
- b. In the team's frontcourt, control the ball for five seconds in an area enclosed by screening teammates.
