<!-- Section: Rule 9-3 -->

## Rule 9-3

### ART. 10

The opponent(s) of the thrower shall not have any body part through the inbounds side of the throw-in boundary-line plane until the ball has been released on a throw-in pass.

> **NOTE:** The thrower may penetrate the plane provided the thrower does not touch the inbounds area or a player inbounds before the ball is released on the throw-in pass. The opponent in this situation may legally touch or grasp the ball.

#### PENALTIES: (Art. 10)

1. The first violation of the throw-in boundary-line plane by an opponent(s) of the thrower shall result in a team warning for delay being given (one delay warning per team per game). The warning does not result in the loss of the opportunity to move along the end line when and if applicable.
2. The second or additional violations will result in a technical foul assessed to the offending team. ([10-2-1c PENALTY](#rule-10-2-1c))
3. If an opponent(s) reaches through the throw-in boundary-line plane and touches or dislodges the ball while in possession of the thrower or being passed to a teammate outside the boundary line (as in [Rule 7-5-7](#rule-7-5-7)), a technical foul shall be charged to the offender. No warning for delay required. ([10-4-10 PENALTY](#rule-10-4-10))
4. If an opponent(s) contacts the thrower, an intentional personal foul shall be charged to the offender. No warning for delay required.

### ART. 11

No teammate of the thrower shall be out of bounds after a designated-spot throw-in begins.

#### PENALTY: (Section 2)

The ball becomes dead when the violation or technical foul occurs. Following a violation, the ball is awarded to the opponents for a throw-in at the original throw-in spot.

<!-- Section: Out of Bounds -->

## SECTION 3 OUT OF BOUNDS

### ART. 1

A player shall not cause the ball to go out of bounds.

> **NOTE:** The dribbler has committed a violation if the dribbler steps on or outside a boundary, even though the dribbler is not touching the ball while the dribbler is out of bounds.

### ART. 2

A player shall not be out of bounds when a player touches or is touched by the ball after it has been released on a throw-in pass.

### ART. 3

A player shall not step out of bounds under the player's own volition and then become the first player to touch the ball after returning to the playing court or to avoid a violation.

#### PENALTY: (Section 3)

The ball is dead when the violation occurs and is awarded to the opponents for a throw-in from the designated out-of-bounds spot nearest the violation. ([6-7-9 EXCEPTION d](#rule-6-7-9))
