<!-- Section: Rule 10-2 -->

## Rule 10-2

### 2023-24 NFHS Basketball Rules Page 66

#### ART. 4

> Fail to occupy the team members' bench to which it is assigned.  
> **PENALTY:** (Section 1) Two free throws plus the ball for a division-line throw-in. (Arts. 3 & 4) Penalized when they occur.

### SECTION 2: TEAM TECHNICAL

#### ART. 1

> Allow the game to develop into an actionless contest, this includes the following and similar acts:

- a. When the clock is not running consuming a full minute through not being ready when it is time to start either half.
- b. Delay the game by preventing the ball from being made promptly live or from being put in play. See [Rules 7-5-1](#rule-7-5-1) and [8-1-2](#rule-8-1-2) for the resumption-of-play procedure to use after a time-out or the intermission between quarters. The procedure is used prior to charging a technical foul in these specific situations.
- c. Commit a violation of the throw-in boundary-line plane, as in [Rule 9-2-10](#rule-9-2-10), after any team warning for delay.
- d. Contact with the free thrower or a huddle of two or more players in the lane by either team prior to a free throw following any team warning for delay.
- e. Interfering with the ball following a goal after any team warning for delay.
- f. Not having the court ready for play following any time-out after any team warning for delay.

#### ART. 2

> Have more than five team players participating simultaneously.

#### ART. 3

> Request an excess time-out.

#### ART. 4

> Commit an unsporting foul.

#### ART. 5

> Fail to have all players return to the court at approximately the same time following a time-out or intermission.

#### ART. 6

> Allow players to lock arms or grasp a teammate(s) in an effort to restrict the movement of an opponent.  
> **PENALTY:** (Section 2) Two free throws plus the ball for a division-line throw-in. (Arts. 1, 4, 5, 6) Penalized when they occur. (Art. 2) Penalized if discovered while being violated. (Art. 3) Penalized when discovered. Head coach does not lose the privilege of the coaching box.

### SECTION 3: SUBSTITUTE TECHNICAL

> A substitute shall not enter the court:

#### ART. 1

> Without reporting to the scorer.

#### ART. 2

> Without being beckoned by an official, except between quarters and during time-outs.  
> **PENALTY:** (Section 3) Two free throws plus the ball for a division-line throw-in. One foul for either or both requirements. Penalized if discovered before the ball becomes live.  
> **NOTE:** A single flagrant technical foul or the second technical foul charged to a substitute results in disqualification of the offender to the team bench.
