<!-- Section: Rule 10-6 -->

## Rule 10-6

### d.

To spontaneously react to an outstanding play by a team member or to acknowledge a replaced player(s), but shall immediately return to their seats.

**PENALTY:** (Arts. 1a, b, d, e, f, 2, 4) The officials may warn the head coach unless the offense is judged to be major, in which case a technical foul shall be ruled. (Arts. 1, 2, 3, 4) Two free throws plus the ball for a division-line throw-in. If the head coach is the offender, the foul is charged directly to the head coach. The foul is charged to the offender (if not the head coach) and also charged indirectly to the head coach. (Art. 1g) Flagrant foul, the offender is disqualified. If the offender is bench personnel, each foul is also charged indirectly to the head coach.

### ART. 5

Leave the confines of the bench during a fight or when a fight may occur.

**EXCEPTION:** The head coach and any number of assistant coaches may enter the court in the situation where a fight may break out – or has broken out – to prevent the situation from escalating.

**PENALTY:** (Art. 5) Flagrant foul, disqualification of individual offender, but only one technical foul penalty is administered regardless of the number of offenders. This one foul is also charged indirectly to the head coach. If the head coach is an offender, an additional flagrant technical foul is charged directly to the head coach and penalized. When a simultaneous technical foul(s) by opponents occurs, the free throws are not awarded when the penalties offset.

**NOTE:** A single flagrant foul or the second technical foul charged to any bench personnel, other than the head coach, results in disqualification of the offender. A single flagrant foul, the second direct technical foul or the third technical (any combination of direct or indirect) charged to the head coach results in disqualification and ejection. Ejected adult bench personnel shall leave the vicinity (out of sight and sound) of the playing area immediately and are prohibited from any further contact (direct or indirect) with the team during the remainder of the game. Failure to comply with the rules of ejection may result in the game being forfeited.

<!-- Section: Head Coach's Rule -->

## SECTION 6 HEAD COACH'S RULE

### ART. 1

The head coach shall remain seated on the team bench, except:

1. By state association adoption, the head coach may stand within the designated coaching box described in [Rule 1-13-2](#rule-1-13-2). The first technical foul charged directly or indirectly to the head coach results in loss of coaching-box privileges and the head coach shall remain seated for the remainder of the game, except as stated below in [Rule 10-6-1b](#rule-10-6-1b), [c](#rule-10-6-1c), [d](#rule-10-6-1d) and [e](#rule-10-6-1e).
2. The head coach may stand within the coaching box to request a time-out or signal players to request a time-out.
3. The head coach may stand and/or leave the coaching box to confer with personnel at the scorer's table to request a time-out as in [Rule 5-8-4](#rule-5-8-4).
4. The head coach may stand within the coaching box to replace or remove a disqualified/injured player or player directed to leave the game.
5. The head coach may stand as in [Rule 10-5-4c](#rule-10-5-4c), [d](#rule-10-5-4d).

**EXCEPTION:** The head coach, and any number of assistant coaches, may enter the court in the situation where a fight may break out – has broken out – to prevent the situation from escalating.
