<!-- Section: Rule 4-20 -->

## Rule 4-20 2023-24 NFHS Basketball Rules

### ART. 5

A technical foul is:

- a. A foul by a nonplayer.
- b. A noncontact foul by a player.
- c. An intentional or flagrant contact foul while the ball is dead, except a foul by an airborne shooter.
- d. A direct technical, charged to the head coach because of the head coach's actions, as in [Rule 10-6](#rule-10-6).
- e. An indirect technical, charged to the head coach as a result of a bench technical foul being assessed to team bench personnel, as in [Rule 10-5](#rule-10-5).

### ART. 6

A player-control foul is a common foul committed by a player while in control of the ball or by an airborne shooter.

### ART. 7

A team-control foul is a common foul committed by a member of the team that has team control or by a member of the throw-in team from the start of the throw-in until player control is obtained inbounds.

### ART. 8

Double fouls:

- a. A double personal foul is a situation in which two opponents commit personal fouls against each other at approximately the same time.
- b. A double technical foul is a situation in which two opponents commit technical fouls against each other at approximately the same time.

### ART. 9

A false double foul is a situation in which there are fouls by both teams, the second of which occurs before the clock is started following the first, and such that at least one of the attributes of a double foul is absent.

### ART. 10

A simultaneous foul (personal or technical) by opponents is a situation in which there is a foul by both teams which occurs at approximately the same time, but are not committed by opponents against each other.

### ART. 11

A multiple foul is a situation in which two or more teammates commit personal fouls against the same opponent at approximately the same time.

### ART. 12

A false multiple foul is a situation in which there are two or more fouls by the same team and the last foul is committed before the clock is started following the first, and at least one of the attributes of a multiple foul is absent.

### ART. 13

A team foul is any personal foul or technical foul (except indirect technical fouls) which is charged to either team. All team fouls are counted to reach the bonus free throws for the quarter in which they are assessed.

### ART. 14

An unsporting foul is a noncontact technical foul which consists of unfair, unethical, dishonorable conduct or any behavior not in accordance with the spirit of fair play.

<!-- Section: Free Throw -->

## SECTION 20 FREE THROW

### ART. 1

A free throw is the opportunity given a player to score one point by an unhindered try for goal from within the free-throw semicircle and behind the free-throw line.

### ART. 2

The free throw begins when the ball is at the disposal of the free thrower.
