<!-- Section: Rule 6-5 -->

## Rule 6-5 2023-24 NFHS Basketball Rules

### ART. 3

Alternating-possession throw-ins shall be from:

- a. One of the four designated spots nearest to where the ball was located if possession is retained or gained in the team's frontcourt. (Diagram 5)
- b. The out-of-bounds spot nearest to where the ball was located if possession is retained or gained in the team's backcourt.

### ART. 4

An alternating-possession throw-in shall result when:

- a. A held ball occurs.
- b. The ball goes out of bounds, as in [Rule 7-3](#rule-7-3).
- c. Simultaneous floor or free-throw violations occur.
- d. A live ball lodges between the backboard and ring or comes to rest on the flange, unless a free throw or throw-in follows.
- e. Opponents commit simultaneous basket-interference violations.
- f. The point of interruption cannot be determined as in [Rule 4-36-2c](#rule-4-36-2c).

> **NOTE:** When the alternating-possession procedure has not been established, the jump ball shall be in the center restraining circle between the two players involved in the previous action.

### ART. 5

The direction of the possession arrow is reversed immediately after an alternating-possession throw-in ends. An alternating-possession throw-in ends when the throw-in ends, as in [Rule 4-42-5](#rule-4-42-5).

### ART. 6

The opportunity to make an alternating-possession throw-in is lost if the throw-in team violates. If either team fouls during an alternating-possession throw-in, it does not cause the throw-in team to lose the possession arrow. If the defensive team commits a violation during the throw-in, the possession arrow is not switched.

<!-- Section: 5 Ball in Play by Throw-In -->

## SECTION 5 BALL IN PLAY BY THROW-IN

The ball shall be put in play by a throw-in under circumstances as outlined in [Rules 6-4-1](#rule-6-4-1), [6-4-2](#rule-6-4-2), [6-4-4](#rule-6-4-4); [Rules 7-1 through 7-6](#rules-7-1-through-7-6); [Rule 8-5](#rule-8-5); and [Rules 9-1 through 9-13](#rules-9-1-through-9-13).

<!-- Section: 6 Ball in Play by Free Throw -->

## SECTION 6 BALL IN PLAY BY FREE THROW

The ball shall be put in play by placing it at the disposal of the free thrower before each free throw.

<!-- Section: 7 Dead Ball -->

## SECTION 7 DEAD BALL

The ball becomes dead, or remains dead, when:

### ART. 1

A goal, as in [Rule 5-1](#rule-5-1), is made.

### ART. 2

It is apparent the free throw will not be successful on a:

- a. Free throw which is to be followed by another free throw.
- b. Free throw which is to be followed by a throw-in.

### ART. 3

A held ball occurs, or the ball lodges between the backboard and ring or comes to rest on the flange.

### ART. 4

A player-control or team-control foul occurs.
