<!-- Section: Rule 10-5 -->

## Rule 10-5

### 2023-24 NFHS Basketball Rules

#### ART. 1

Leaving the playing court for an unauthorized reason to demonstrate resentment, disgust or intimidation.

#### ART. 7

Intentionally or flagrantly contacting an opponent when the ball is dead and such contact is not a personal foul.

#### ART. 8

Be charged with fighting.  
**PENALTY:** (Art. 8) Flagrant foul.

#### ART. 9

Commit goaltending during a free throw.

#### ART. 10

Reach through the throw-in boundary-line plane and touch or dislodge the ball as in [Rule 9-2](#rule-9-2).  
**PENALTY:** (Section 4) Two free throws plus the ball for a division-line throw-in.  
**NOTE:** A single flagrant technical foul or the second technical foul charged to a player results in disqualification of the offender to the team bench.

### SECTION 5: BENCH TECHNICAL

The head coach is responsible for personal conduct and behavior, as well as substitutes, disqualified team members and all other bench personnel. Bench personnel, including the head coach, shall not:

#### ART. 1

Commit an unsporting foul. This includes, but is not limited to, acts or conduct such as:

- a. Disrespectfully addressing an official.
- b. Attempting to influence an official's decision.
- c. Using profane or inappropriate language or obscene gestures.
- d. Disrespectfully addressing, baiting or taunting an opponent.  
  **NOTE:** The NFHS disapproves of any form of taunting which is intended or designed to embarrass, ridicule or demean others under any circumstances including on the basis of race, religion, gender or national origin.
- e. Objecting to an official's decision by rising from the bench or using gestures.
- f. Inciting undesirable crowd reactions.
- g. Being charged with fighting.
- h. Removing the jersey and/or pants/skirt within the visual confines of the playing area.
- i. Grasping either basket except to prevent injury; dunking or attempting to dunk or stuff a dead ball.

#### ART. 2

Enter the court unless by permission of an official to attend an injured player.

#### ART. 3

Use alcohol, or any form of tobacco product (e-cigarette or similar items) beginning with arrival at the competition site until departure following the completion of the contest.

#### ART. 4

Stand at the team bench while the clock is running or is stopped, and shall remain seated, except:

- a. The head coach as in [Rule 10-6-1](#rule-10-6-1).
- b. When a team member is reporting to the scorer's table.
- c. During a charged time-out, as in [Rule 5-11](#rule-5-11), or the intermission between quarters and extra periods.
