# WIAA and WOA Volleyball Rules Quiz

1. WIAA and WOA have adopted that line judges are required to switch corners when teams remain on the same benches throughout the match.

   a. True
   b. False

2. Which of the following uniform numbers are legal?

   a. The number 9 in white with a black outline with white uniform tops.
   b. The number 5 that is 4 inches tall on both the front and the back of the uniform.
   c. The number 0 on the front but 5 inches from the shoulder seam or centered 5 inches below the neckline.

3. Between sets, Team A's head coach indicates number 8 as the libero for the set. No player is wearing number 8. When performing the line-up check, the official recognizes the libero for Team A is wearing number 6. What is the proper procedure?

   a. Only #8 may play as the libero in the set.
   b. The R2 notifies the head coach, the head coach changes the number on the lineup to No. 6. No penalty assessed.
   c. The R2 notifies the head coach for Team A. The head coach may make the change but will be charged a substitution for the set that the scorer will record.

4. Which of the following are recorded in the comments section of the scoresheet?

   a. Redesignation of libero and unnecessary delay.
   b. Exceptional substitution and cards issued for unsporting conduct.
   c. Unconscious player and Illegal equipment or uniform.
   d. A & B
   e. A, B, & C

5. During a rally, after a team's first contact the ball contacts a vertically hanging backboard that is over a playable area. What is the correct outcome?

   a. The basketball backboard is part of the ceiling and can be played off of. No fault call, play on.
   b. A replay is always the result.
   c. Whistle the play dead and only award a replay if: a player is in position to play it and there is a team contact remaining.
   d. R1 signals point for the opponent as the backboard and it's supports are not playable.

6. What is the procedure for ending a time-out?

   a. R2 blows a double whistle at 15 seconds remaining, when the timeout goes to 60 seconds an audio horn is sounded.
   b. If the R2 is attending to a bench matter, the R1 blows a double whistle at 15 seconds remaining, when the timeout goes to 60 seconds and an audio horn is sounded.
   c. Both teams are on the court and ready to play at 30 seconds, R2 blows a double whistle and an audio horn is sounded.
   d. All of the above.

7. Team A submits a late line-up to the scorer between sets 1 and 2, receiving an administrative yellow card. Team A submits another late line-up with 15 seconds left in the interval between sets 3 and 4. What penalty should be assessed?

   a. Assess an administrative yellow card to Team A.
   b. Assess an administrative red card to Team A and a point to Team B for the second unnecessary delay in the match.
   c. Charge Team A with a time-out.

8. The Libero Tracker is responsible to record:

   a. proper service order.
   b. substitutions.
   c. place a triangle around the serving order position in which the libero served.
   d. All of the above.

9. A note from a MD/OD is required in order for a player to return to play (after being removed from the game for symptoms of a concussion)

   a. True
   b. False

10. At the prematch conference Coach A submits their team roster to the R2 but Coach B does not have a roster to submit. What action should the R2 take?

    a. Team B receives an unnecessary delay (Administrative yellow card).
    b. Loss of rally/point.
    c. As long as the coach of Team B turns the roster 10 minutes before the start of the match, no penalty.
    d. Coach B is part of the home team and always leaves their roster on the score table before the prematch conference with all the scoresheets - no penalty is assessed.

11. A head coach requests a substitution that is whistled by the R2 but the player is not ready to go in. What is the proper procedure?

    a. The coach withdraws their request for the substitution since the player was not ready. No penalty. The sub can be administered at the next dead ball.
    b. When a player is ready, allow them to enter the court without penalty.
    c. The team is charged with an unnecessary delay. That substituted player is not able to enter for the remainder of the set.
    d. The team is charged an unnecessary delay, the substitution is denied, and no new request allowed until after the next rally.

12. Before the beckon for serve, the coach visually signals for a substitution. The substitute has not entered the substitution zone and the R2 has blown the whistle. What is the proper procedure?

    a. The R1 waves off the substitution request and whistles to beckon for serve.
    b. The R2 allows the substitution request, the player enters the sub-zone and is released to enter the court.
    c. The team is charged with unnecessary delay as visual requests for substitutions should not be authorized.

13. Player #2 for Team R legally attacks the ball then falls to the floor and contacts the opponent's court with her hand on the center line. Player #5 for Team S legally attempts to block the ball and comes down on the opponent's hand with no resulting interference. What is the correct call?

    a. Team R wins the rally.
    b. Play continues.
    c. Double Fault. Replay.
    d. Teams S wins the rally.

14. A player for Team S is in contact with playable space and reaching over the bleachers to make a play on the ball when a spectator interferes with the player's ability to contacts the ball. What is the correct call?

    a. R1 awards a replay but coach for Team R vocally disagrees and calls "out". R1 changes their call.
    b. R1 signals point for Team R.
    c. R1 awards a replay and Team R requests a substitution.
    d. R1 awards a replay.

15. The libero can serve in the following situation(s):

    a. For one position in the service order.
    b. If the libero replaces the server from a legal position on the court, creating a double replacement, and the libero has not served in another position during the set.
    c. Only after the libero has rotated completely through the back row positions.
    d. A & B

16. What is the proper signal when the same player makes both the 3rd and 4th team contact?

    a. Illegal hit.
    b. Double hit.
    c. Ball touched.
    d. Four hits.

17. After receiving an administrative red card for a second unnecessary delay in the same set, the head coach:

    a. Will face disqualification upon their next offense in the match.
    b. Is required to remain seated throughout the remainder of the set.
    c. Is required to remain seated throughout the remainder of the match.
    d. May continue to stand. Administrative cards do not warrant a coach losing the privilege to stand during play.

18. Coach A wants a substitution - which of the following should be recognized as a legal request for a substitution:

    a. The head coach can give a verbal or non-verbalized signal for a substitution.
    b. The head coach signals to request a sub after the R1 has beckoned for serve.
    c. Player on the court to be substituted tells the R2.

19. During warm-ups a player on Team S is injured. The coach has already submitted the Team S lineup which includes the injured player. What is the proper procedure?

    a. The R2 charges Team S with unnecessary delay.
    b. The R2 allows the coach to make a lineup change and charges Team S with a substitution prior to the start of the set.
    c. The R2 allows the coach to make a lineup change and does not charge Team S with a substitution prior to the start of the set.

20. Player #14 rotates to the serving position and is legally replaced by the libero to serve. After a successful serve, Player #14 replaces the Libero and serves an ace to win the rally. Which is correct?

    a. The libero is now allowed to serve in a subsequent service order since #14 served for the libero.
    b. There is no violation and the serving team retains the point.
    c. The R2 whistles, stops play after contact of serve, and signals out of rotation for an incorrect server.
    d. The R2 administers an unnecessary delay to the team and corrects the illegal replacement.

Missed Questions: 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11.
