Player 12 from Team A is wearing a necklace and small stud earings during warm-ups. The R1 should tell the head coach:

a.
All jewlery must be removed including the earrings and necklace.

b.
Post earrings may be worn by the player. The player must remove the necklace only if it is not a medical alert or a religious necklace.

c.
If it is a medical alert or religious necklace the player may play with it on if it is taped to the body.

d.
Refusal to remove the necklace if it is not a medical alert or religious necklace taped down will result in an unsporting conduct yellow card.

e.
B, C, and D are all correct rules to tell the head coach.

E

Before the deciding set, the R2, while standing in front of the scorer's table, double whistles and raises a coin to notify the captains of the coin toss. After the coin toss:

a.
The R2 indicates the serving team by making a serving motion to the R1.

b.
The R2 indicates to the R1 with an open hand and arm extended to the team to serve next.

c.
The R2 indicates the receiving team to the R1.

d.
The R2 gives the results of the coin toss to the scorer.

e.
Both B&D are correct procedures.

E

Which of the following scenarios results in a legal play once the libero uses overhand finger action to set the ball on or in front of the attack line:

a.
A backrow player hits the ball behind the attack line above the height of the net.

b.
A front row player jumps but does not hit the ball. Instead, they chose to set the ball over while it is above the height of the net.

c.
The libero's errant set, which is contacted above the height of the net, is not contacted by a teammate and hits the net and dribbles over.

d.
A front row player jumps in front of the attack line and hits the ball with part of the ball below the height of the net.

e.
None of these are legal.

D

The coaching zone, where a coach is able to stand and coach, is defined by:

a.
The libero replacement zone and its extension beyond the endline.

b.
The libero replacement zone and its extension beyond the endline and may have the head coach and one assistant coach stand within it to coach players during play.

c.
The libero replacement zone and may only have the head coach stand within it to coach players.

d.
The libero replacement zone and may have the head coach stand within it and/or one assistant coach during a dead ball.

A

Player #3 on the receiving side of the net contacts the net after playing the ball. The R2 blows their whistle, gets to the offending side, and signals net violation (signal 6). What then is the proper order for the signal sequence mechanics between the R1 & R2?

a.
First, the R2 indicates player # at fault to the R1. Next, the R1 signals point to the serving team followed by the player's number. The R2 mirrors the signal for the point.

b.
First, the R1 signals point to the serving team. Second, the R2 indicates the player number.

c.
First, the R2 signals point to the serving team, then signals the player number. The R1 does not need to repeat signals since the R2 initiated the call sequence.

d.
First, the R2 signals point to the serving team and the player # at fault. The R1 next signals net violation (signal 6) and signals point to the serving team and the player # at fault.

C

In the prematch conference the head coach for team A states that there is not a healthcare professional on the bench. Player A22 is showing symptoms of having a concussion. The player is sent out for a play, the head coach examines the player and determines that she does not have a concussion. A22 is not allowed to return to the game.

a.
True

b.
False

A

Team S server steps on the endline while serving the ball and Team R was out of alignment at the moment of contact. What is the correct call?

a.
Double Fault. Replay.

b.
Team R wins the rally.

c.
Play continues.

d.
Teams S wins the rally.

A

Team S player contacts the opponent's court completely across the center line with one or both feet/hands and no interference or potential safety hazard exists. What is the correct call?

a.
Replay.

b.
Teams S wins the rally.

c.
Centerline violation and Team R wins the rally.

d.
Play continues.

D

After beckoning for serve, a player is discovered on the court as an illegal substitute. What is the proper procedure?

a.
Illegal alignment is charged to the offending team and the opponent is awarded a loss of rally/point. The legal player is placed back on the court for the illegal player without charging a substitution.

b.
The offending team is charged with an unnecessary delay after the rally and the illegal player is removed and replaced with the legal player.

c.
Play continues. Once the rally is complete the team can correct the illegal player by subbing them off the court with the legal player.

d.
As long as the offending team recognizes their error and quickly switches the legal player for the illegal player on the court, play continues without penalty.

A

Team B requests a substitution: Player 5 for 10. Player 5 serves four points. Player 5 is then replaced by the libero. When the libero is ready to rotate to the front row, Player 10 enters illegally but is not noticed by the libero tracker. Player 10 rotates across the front row and is ready to rotate to the right back position. Player 5 enters the substitution zone. At this time the scorer and R2 notices the illegal player (#10) in the set. What is the proper procedure?

a.
R2 assesses Team B with an unnecessary delay. The substitution is permitted and player 5 serves next.

b.
R2 signals illegal alignment and the loss of rally/point just awarded to Team B is reversed. Player 5 is put back onto the court in the right front position without charging the team with a substitution. Team A's previous server continues serving.

c.
R2 signals illegal alignment and the loss of rally/point just awarded to Team B is reversed. Team B loses all points scored while the illegal player was in the set. Team A's previous server continues serving.

d.
R2 assesses an unnecessary delay for Team B. Player 5 is put back on to the court in the right back position. Team B loses the point just awarded and Team A rotates and serves next.

B

When a Team R player becomes injured and the team has used its allotted time-outs but still has substitutes available, the coach has 30 seconds to:

a.
Request a substitute for the injured player.

b.
Complete a legal libero replacement for the injured player.

c.
Ask the referee for an injury time-out since they have no time-outs left.

d.
Both A & B

D

The head coach received a yellow card for unsporting conduct in the first set. In the second set, the head coach is livid about a ball handling call. The head coach stands at the sideline and yells across the court at the R1. Which of the following is a proper and legal protocol that either the R1 or R2 could take?

a.
The R2 ignores the behavior because the R1 really should have called the double.

b.
The R2 gives the coach a verbal warning.

c.
The R2 requests the R1 to issue a yellow card to the coach for unsporting, disrespectful conduct because this is the head coach's first offense in this set.

d.
The R1 issues a red card for unsporting, disrespectful conduct. The R2 tells the coach the reason for the red card and explains the requirement to remain seated for the remainder of the match and a penalty point is awarded to the opponent.

D

During a time-out, the head coach of the serving team requests a substitution and the player is positioned in the sub zone. Which is the correct procedure for administration of the substitution?

a.
As long as the R2 can report the substitution numbers to the scorer before the end of the time-out, the substitute can go in without being whistled. The horn sounds and the R2 gives the court back to the R1.

b.
After the horn is sounded at the end of the time-out, the R2 indicates how many time-outs each team has taken and blows a double whistle, rotates their forearms, palms down, reports the player numbers to the scorer, then authorizes the sub to enter the court and gives the court back to the R1.

c.
After the horn is sounded to end the time-out, the R2 indicates how many time-outs each team has taken and blows a double whistle, rotates their forearms with closed fists, authorizes the substitute to enter the court with the arm on the side of the substitute, then reports the sub to the scorer. When the scorer is ready, the R2 then gives the court back to R1.

d.
R2 blows a double whistle, rotates their forearms, palms down, authorizes the sub to enter the court and reports the player numbers to the scorer, then the R1 is free to beckon for service.

C

A coach repeatedly verbally abuses their players. Which of the following is a proper and legal protocol that either the R1 or the R2 could take?

a.
The R2 issues and shows a yellow card to the coach for unsporting, disrespectful conduct. The R2 informs the scorer of their decision.

b.
The R1 issues a red card for unsporting, disrespectful conduct. The R2 tells the coach the reason for the red card and they are required to remain seated for the remainder of the match.

c.
The R2 requests the R1 to issue a yellow card to the coach for unsporting, disrespectful conduct, but the R1 denies their partner's request because this is not a sanctionable offense.

d.
The R1 issues a yellow card for unsporting, disrespectful conduct. The R2 tells the coach the reason for the yellow card and they are required to remain seated for the remainder of the match.

A

Which of the following is allowed in the coaching zone by coaches?

a.
During a dead ball, the head coach and one assistant coach stand to instruct their team in the libero replacement zone. The first assistant sits down and a second assistant coach at the end of the bench then stands up to instruct their server behind the endline where to serve and sits down before the R1 beckons.

b.
During play, an assistant coach stands up and walks to the end of the bench and remains standing to instruct the libero who was just replaced.

c.
During play the head coach stands within the libero replacement zone to instruct players while one assistant stands beyond the extension of the endline and the libero replacement zone to take stats.

d.
During a dead ball, one assistant coach confers with the setter while a second asisistant coach stands to instructs the front row, but the head coach remains seated.
A

Factors to be weighed when judging screening are:

a.
Relative player positions on the serving team.

b.
Trajectory and speed of the serve.

c.
The path of the serve.

d.
A & C

e.
A, B, & C

E

Team R wins an exciting and long rally. The entire bench erupts in celebration and they end up on the court, impeding the progress of the set. What is the appropriate response from officials?

a.
R1 awards an unsportsmanlike yellow card to the bench, while the R2 explains to the head coach that spontaneous reactions do not include entering the court.

b.
R1 awards an unsportsmanlike yellow card to the bench and the head coach has to sit the remainder of the match.

c.
No response necessary - play continues.

d.
R2 attempts to 'herd them' back to the bench.

A

Missed Questions: 6, 9, 10.
