<!-- Section: Scoring and Host Management Best Practices -->

## Scoring and Host Management Best Practices

### Scoring Guidelines

- For written scoring, alternate each full rotation/round of service (all six positions from each team have served) in a contrasting color of ink.
- If there are any scoring issues, notify the second referee.
- Communicate with the second referee during time-outs and between sets.

### Host Management Best Practices

Host management plays an important role in creating a positive, fun, and safe environment for the players, coaches, officials, and spectators. The designated administrator on site should introduce themselves to the officials upon arrival at the facility and show them to their locker room(s). The same should be done for visiting teams as they arrive on site. Officials and coaches should be able to identify host management easily if a situation should arise. In addition to being present, host management should:

- Ensure that the facility is set up properly one hour before the match.
- Ensure that the net system is set up at the correct height and is padded.
- Ensure that the referee’s stand is safely secure and padded.
- Assist in ensuring teams do not enter the court from both sides and do not encircle the entire court.
- Be available throughout the match(es).
- Post signage for home/visitor and/or student section. Allow fans to stand, but not on the playing surface.
- Ensure that any unsporting conduct (comments intended or designed to embarrass, ridicule, or demean others) by spectators is not tolerated. It needs to be immediately addressed.
- Collaborate with the officials to suspend play for fan issues, if necessary.

### Disclaimer – NFHS Position Statements and Guidelines

The NFHS regularly distributes position statements and guidelines to promote public awareness of certain health and safety-related issues. Such information is neither exhaustive nor necessarily applicable to all circumstances or individuals, and is no substitute for consultation with appropriate health-care professionals. Statutes, codes, or environmental conditions may be relevant. NFHS position statements or guidelines should be considered in conjunction with other pertinent materials when taking action or planning care. The NFHS reserves the right to rescind or modify any such document at any time. Please see pages 73-75 for these position statements.
