<!-- Section: Unnecessary Delays -->

## Unnecessary Delays

### Definition

An unnecessary delay includes, but is not limited to:

### Subsequent Occurrence (in set)

- N/A

### First Occurrence (in set)

- **Yellow Penalty Warning**

### Delay Examples

1. Failure to submit a roster to the second referee at the pre-match conference.
2. Late submission of a team's lineup.

### Penalty

- N/A

1. Loss of Rally/Point
2. Yellow (after 2:00/1:00 warnings)
3. Yellow
4. Red (No time left on clock)
5. Red

### Specific Delays

- Team not ready to start play when directed by first referee.
- A substitute attempting to enter or when a player is in the set wearing illegal equipment/uniform.
- Coach or Captain making excessive requests for serving order.
- Delay in properly completing a substitution(s) or a substitute(s) entering court before authorization by the referee.
- An illegal substitute attempting to enter set.
- An illegal replacement attempting to enter the set (illegal alignment once signal for serve initiated).
- A team repeatedly using an improper substitution procedure.
- A coach fails to make a decision about an injured player within 30 seconds.
- Delay returning to court after time-out, or delay caused by spillages (liquids/substances) during time-out.
- A team conferring during a time-out at a location other than the team bench/court area.
- A team requests a time-out after taking allotted time-outs.
- A libero or replacement enters/exits court outside the libero replacement zone.
- A substitution is denied by the second referee after the request has been recognized (whistled) due to being illegal.
- Improper request for substitution, time-out, or lineup check that is acknowledged (whistled) by referee.

### Note

For repeated unnecessary delay violations in multiple sets, unsporting conduct may be issued by the first referee.

### Penalty Summary

| Occurrence | Penalty Type | Penalty Description |
| ---------- | ------------ | ------------------- |
| 1          | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 2          | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
| 3          | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 4          | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
| 5          | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 6          | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
| 7          | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 8          | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
| 9          | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 10         | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
| 11         | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 12         | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
| 13         | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 14         | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
| 15         | Yellow       | Warning             |
| 16         | Red          | Loss of Rally/Point |
