<!-- Section: Card Procedures for Unsporting Conduct Violations -->

## Card Procedures for Unsporting Conduct Violations

### Second Referee Communicating with First Referee

1. **First Referee Administering Cards**

   - Second referee steps to the side of the offending team and a few steps towards the first referee holding the card in the middle of the chest, then verbalizes the number of the player or which coach received the card.
   - First referee whistles and holds the card in hand on the offending team's side held head high, then verbalizes the number of the player or which coach received the card.

2. **Disqualification**
   - Second referee steps to the side of the offending team and a few steps towards the first referee holding a card in each hand in the middle of the chest, then verbalizes the number of the player or which coach is disqualified.
   - First referee whistles and holds a card (head high) in each hand on the side of the offending team, then verbalizes the number of the player or which coach is disqualified.
   - A referee shall notify the appropriate coach of the reason for the disqualification.

### Informal Officials Signals

Informal hand signals used to enhance the match may be used for communication by the second referee to the first referee. How these calls are to be communicated should be addressed in the referees' prematch conference. Such additional signals include:

1. Set/Match point
2. Four hits
3. Identifying possible back-row player violations
4. Position of setter prior to the serve
5. Illegal hit
6. Ready to play
7. Net Fault player identification
8. Antenna fault
9. Double hit
10. In/Out/Touch
11. Offending player's uniform number

Informal signals can also be used to communicate with coaches during play. These signals can be used to communicate that the referee is aware of a potential decision or to provide information regarding the reason for the continuation of play. Such additional signals include:

1. Legal Back-row Attack
   - a. Behind the line
   - b. Below the net

> **NOTE:** A full description of how to display and use the informal signals is located in the NFHS Volleyball Case Book and Officials Manual.
